Imagine a place where you could see illness
in the body and its electrical field before it became
a serious threat to your life or well-being.
That's what Dr. Harry Oldfield
brings to the world of medicine and healing.
His polycontrast interference photography device,
known as PIP, has aided healers and medical doctors alike
in diagnosing illness, mental imbalances, and more.
PIP also allows us to look into an otherwise invisible world
of vibrant, living, dynamic energy
surrounding people, places, plants and animals,
even the mysterious subject of crystal healing.
You were not
your average little bear as a child.
You were asking Grandma some questions
kids at three years old don't normally ask.
That's correct, yes.
Can you talk a little bit about how it began,
how your journey began.
Well, my recollection was of my grandma.
She always thought I was a little bit special.
I mean, I had two brothers.
She also thought they were special too.
They have gone on to do some great things.
One day she was babysitting, for me.
Actually, I think it's really cruel to sit on babies.
There should be a law against it.
(laughs) There should be.
But I survived the sitting.
And she's watching me play in her drawing room.
Through a gap in the curtains, a sunbeam is coming in.
She was explaining.
I can't recollect any of this.
It's her recollection I'm going by.
And the sunbeam's coming through the curtains,
hitting a spot on the carpet.
I'm putting my finger in the carpet,
looking at the light, crawling around,
all directions around the beam.
And then I stand up and I walk towards the window,
looking very curious.
And I start tapping the window.
And then she got concerned,
because I started to tap the window quite hard.
She said, "Now, Harold."
She always called me "Harold" if I'd done anything naughty.
Because it's normally "Harry," you see.
"Harold, what do you think you're doing, young man."
And apparently I turned to her and said to her,
"Nana, why is it when the light comes through the glass,
"it doesn't break."
Good question from a three-year-old.
And I bet she didn't have the answer, did she?
Apparently, a week or so before,
I'd been playing in the garden with little stones.
And I'd broken a window pane
by watching a stone go through, obviously, glass.
I remembered the experience of the stone
going through the glass and breaking it.
But seeing this beam of light coming through,
and to have that kind of thought process.
She thought it was rather special for a three-year-old.
Yes. Well I would say.
Then she started to nurture me.
She started nurturing you, and you were nurtured,
and your curiosity was fostered.
And by the way, we're out here among
the clearing of the breakfast crowd.
And just in case anyone sees it, it's a beautiful day.
And there's a little squirrel that's in love with you.
And you're not even bribing him with sunflower seeds.
No. No. It could be a female squirrel.
It could be! (laughs)
If any of you see a busy little tail
popping up over the shoulder.
She's taken, or he's taken a liking to me.
And I've got nothing here to bribe him with.
No, you don't. (laughs)
Okay. So as you move through into your curiosity,
you end up in the world of science, hard-core science.
I did indeed.
Before that, though, there was an incident
when I was 11, 12 years old,
where my parents suddenly got through a 100-pound check.
Now we are talking like early '60s.
Yeah, early '60s.
And that is like, equivalent of what would be $1,000 today.
A thousand pounds, or something like this.
Made out to Harry Oldfield, you know.
And my father and mother are astonished.
"What have you been doing, Harry?"
This is where from? A fish food company
that make goldfish flakes, that kind of thing.
In the letter, they said,
"Thank you very much for your presentation of your research.
"We are very interested.
"And here is a hundred pounds
"for your time and trouble, young man.
"Thank you very much."
Now, I was able to take my family on a holiday
that summer with that money and everything.
They opened up a little bank account for me.
I'm 12 years old.
Barclays, I remember it very well.
Why shouldn't I advertise?
I've still stuck with Barclays all these years, actually.
From that incident.
The thing was, that company went on to make shrimps
into freeze-dried.
I had invented a way of growing these shrimps
to full size in captivity,
with a special formula.
In my first microscope, I looked at their mouth size,
and I knew they ate algae, green little plants.
And I found a substitute for their mouth size
that they could possibly eat,
which was yeast, Brugge yeast.
And I put this in their growing water.
And they grew to full-size shrimps.
On a byproduct of beer.
And some of them looked very happy indeed.
We're Brits, you know.
Brits, of course.
Quite, from the beer.
Ours is a little bit warmer than yours.
Well, that's your social structure, isn't it?
It is a social structure.
Did your parents know about this experiment?
Well, they noticed a lot of jars
on their window sills, as usual.
There was an incident where
I was hatching out stick insects.
And I had all these eggs.
As the stick insects laid the eggs,
I was putting them in there and covered the hatch.
And I spilled some of the eggs
and they went down in the cracks.
And I forgot about them.
Three months later, there's screams from my mother.
And she's pulling stick insects
out of her laundered underwear.
Oh no! Okay, so they were used to you.
They were used to you by this time.
And now it's paying off.
I was looked upon even eccentric by my parents.
(laughs) I bet you were. And today? Okay?
Probably looked upon in the same way by my family members,
but in a nice respectful way.
Yes. As you moved into your studies
and then decided to pursue biology,
which is not a surprise
considering the things you've already told us,
how was your mind structured at that time?
Were you always trying to go outside of the box?
Or were you trying to discipline it
in the classic sciences moreso.
I was always, shall we say, respectful
of the discipline of science, you know,
and the protocols that you followed.
And how to evaluate information.
How to structure your ideas.
And this was an absolute fantastic way
of disciplining what was a very very active young mind.
I'm speaking to me in the third person.
As a child.
I don't know if I would have wanted
to have been my father. (laughs)
Because, you know, he had infinite patience.
He was a London bus driver.
And I was the first of his family to ever go to university.
Later, my brothers followed, of course.
It was a very special responsibility, so I did a good job.
To make him proud. And my mother, of course.
And how long after that did you start
splititng away from what you had traditionally been taught,
and going into these realms you're in now,
which are so profound?
I went into science teaching after my degree
for a short time period.
I was always, in the equivalent of your high school,
I was even called the "mad prof," even in them days,
by the students.
There was a little incident
where I blew up a science laboratory one day.
Which, actually, the local school and government
forgave me for, because it was a total accident.
But I did blow up the laboratory.
My reputation was set with these young kids.
They were fighting to
get on my course.
I bet they were!
for their studies in science.
I tried to make science alive for them.
And for them to love it as much as I loved it.
And I think I managed for quite a while.
And I was always trying to do
these extracurricular activities after school.
I formed a science club.
Where children who would normally
wait for their parents to come home
or they're gonna take me away me in something led,
they'd come to the science club.
And I would not only
just help them with their science homework,
but also introduce them to things that were a little bit
off the curriculum.
And I introduced them to a subject called
Kirlian photography.
And it was, shall we say, opening for me
that has brought me to here today, really.
And it started with Kirlian photography.
And I must give credit
to Semyon and Valentina Kirlian,
from the Ukraine,
who were the inventors of the system.
Now some people say that before them,
Tesla had noticed the effect,
and we must give credit there too.
But anyway, Kirlian photography is a high-voltage,
high-frequency system
which can take electrical pictures of any object.
And you can see a field around it.
In fact, Semyon Kirlian was an electrical engineer.
And he was asked to service
some high-voltage electricity in Russia.
And his hands strayed into the field of a transformer
that should have been switched off.
And he noticed a glow around his hands.
And he was just fascinated by this effect.
And he made a home device.
And from that time, their legend was set in motion.
And I made a little device.
I must mention a book.
It can still be got, I believe, on the Internet.
It's called Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain.
By Ostrander and Schroeder. A classic.
And it brought Kirlian photography
for the first time to the West.
There were schematic diagrams in the back of the book
that any scientist
or someone with engineering skills could follow.
I set up a Kirlian camera
for the kids' curiosity, mainly, and mine.
And we started with a phantom-leaf effect.
There's a phenomenal effect.
I showed them in my presentation yesterday.
Where you can remove leaves from a plant
I've discovered that should be organically grown.
You can see, where you've removed the leaves,
the phantom image of where the physical leaf was.
And I believe, and the Kirlians believed,
that there was some kind of subatomic energy field matrix
on which the physical molecules were formed.
I later took it further, with my PIP system.
Which is the development, all those years ago,
of Kirlian photography.
But now it's computer-based.
Instead of using electrons and electric fields,
it uses light, photons, to show the effect.
But basically, I've even been able to show phantom limbs.
I was just going to ask you about phantom limbs.
Arms and things, of human beings, of course.
Well, in fact, some of what you show
is truly stunning.
Thank you.
I'm so grateful to be sitting here with you,
because this is the real bridge between the worlds.
The people that say "Show me."
Seeing is believing.
The world of energy, the world of thought.
I've been through a stage in my development
when I was at university,
shall we say, embracing the scientific logic,
of going through that phase.
Where I dismissed things that were interesting,
like the psyche and the paranormal.
Because the reproducability was a problem.
That little squirrel that was here eariler.
If you put him in a Faraday cage,
all screened and wired up to electrodes and things,
and asked him, like he's just normal,
to repeat his behavior, repeat the experiment,
it would be impossible for him to do.
And that is a characteristic of nature. You know?
And we human beings are putting things
into test tubes and Petri dishes
for reproducability and everything.
But that's not how nature does it.
And this has taken me all these years to get back
to the way nature thinks.
God created nature, in my opinion, of course.
Yes. And so you're now showing all of the elements
of nature that are normally veiled from the human eye.
Because we're not able yet to see into these subtle realms.
Can you personally see into this other realm?
No. No, I can't.
Just your equipment sees.
I have been blessed with that,
as one clairvoyant mystic told me.
She said, "Do you know, Harry,
"if you'd been given my gift,
"you probably wouldn't have made
"any kind of apparatus at all."
So true.
I would have sat back on my laurels
and been quite satisfied with the auras
I'd see around people.
And the energy from my food
and the specter walking down the castle wall or whatever.
And I would have been happy with and satisfied,
because I've got that ability.
How true.
But I haven't. But I knew other people had.
So I got modern technology to a state
where it could photograph that.
It could record it.
I was in Gettysburg last year.
Probably if I went back to Gettysburg again,
I wouldn't be able to record exactly the same phenomena.
But it will record phenomena.
And will you talk about Gettysburg for a moment?
I would be delighted.
In fact, I'm hoping
I went, by the way, with the invite of Dr. Brian Dailey
who I believe you might be speaking to later,
who was my co-presenter here at ISIMS.
And Dr. Dailey is the most wonderful physican.
In fact, he won the top physician award
of the United States, two years running, I believe.
And that's the caliber of scientist I'm working with
here in the United States,
which I'm greatly privileged to be doing.
Talk about what happened
when you went to Gettysburg.
Certainly.
Well, we decided that we would
go to some of the old battlefield sites, obviously.
We were panning around with our equipment.
And I caught on film
what looks like a soldier holding a rifle,
in what looks like a uniform of that time period.
We also got near a barn,
which was supposed to have been a Union hospital
at the time of Gettysburg's battle,
used as an emergency hospital.
And we saw two soldier figures in their hats
near that particular structure.
And it was quite fascinating.
Absolutely.
In fact, this is another area that
has always been a great mystery to humankind.
Well, it has been in more recent times,
where we've become more disconnected with the truth.
And that is the whole subject of life after life
and what are we?
And the notion of a soul
or an astral body or a subtle field.
Absolutely.
If we're going back to Kirlian and PIP
and everything else that shows up energy.
If we are energy beings, you know,
and energy can neither be created nor destroyed,
when this mortal coil is shed,
the physical mortal coils go,
there is energy that is left.
And if we have something called conscious coherence,
which most of us have, hopefully, in life,
that should continue.
I'm of the vein of scientists
who believe in something called
the mind-brain non-locality theory.
In which, although mind does work through the brain,
it sometimes works when the brain is shut off,
like with an anesthetic or near-death experiences,
when the brain was not physically functioning.
Yet consciousness was there and recalled later
on recovery of that said human being from their experience.
And with your equipment, you're able
to substantiate or validate this,
because you can actually see the energy flows.
Very much so.
Around the body.
Perhaps I should cite here the most mysterious of this,
was when I did work in a morgue,
in the Mediterranean.
And I was called in by the chief pathologist.
And I thought it was most unusual.
Heard of my work, I was in the country.
And he said, "Would you mind coming
"to my establishment and using your apparatus
"to scan round and look for anomalies?"
I said, well this is a very open-minded scientist.
I asked him on the phone, I said,
"Thank you, professor.
"But may I say, what made you think of this?
"Why am I to do it?"
He said, "Because of an experience I had
"some years ago."
He was working on an autopsy of a young girl,
an unfortunate victim of a road traffic accident.
And he worked to the early hours of the morning,
so that the report could be in for the coroner the next day.
I do believe that pathologists do it here
in America too, unfortunately.
Young people who don't wear motorcycle helmets,
please do.
Because there's so many premature deaths
that happen because of it.
I've seen it here in Colorado.
Young people going around with no helmets.
I'm a father, I like to see young people safe.
But anyway, they're very precious.
And this girl, unfortunately, came to an unnatural end.
And he's doing what he's supposed to do with the autopsy.
And suddenly he gets a feeling of being watched.
He knew he was alone in the autopsy room.
He'd sent all his staff home, much earlier.
Because he was the one that works the early hours.
And he looked up from what he was doing,
at the foot of the bench.
And there stood a girl, looking horrified.
With a look of horror on her face,
all dressed in white.
And he said, "Your face is familiar."
He thought she had escaped
from the adjacent wing of the hospital.
It was a psychiatric wing.
And he thought she was a psych patient,
and that he'd have to call security.
And he suddenly realized,
he looked down at the mortuary table,
and it was the same face.
As he realized that in horror himself,
the girl manifestation disappeared.
On the subject of the beingness of our beings,
and being able to validate this with your technology.
You and Dr. Dailey are headed right after this interview
by request of a family to, I assume, take images?
A comatose patient, yes.
Images of the comatose patient
to see whether they've really departed or not.
Can you talk about that phenomenon?
Obviously, not personally about this particular case.
But in general, with comatose victims,
they are either in a persistent vegetative state,
deep coma,
or they are coming in and out of consciousness.
Now, sometimes, that is the body's way
of recovering from a very deep trauma.
And the mind takes a vacation from the brain and the body
because there's been so much trauma.
There's so much it can take, the nervous system.
So it shuts down for a while.
And then comes back.
And consciousness returns.
And people return, hopefully with all their functions.
However, when there has been a lot of damage,
like a very deep stroke or a cardiovascular incident,
or many other things, diabetic shock or whatever,
then the persistence of the coma can go on for months
and sometimes years.
Now, it's been well-recorded
that people have returned from such states
with being played their favorite music,
hearing a loved one's voice
that's brought them back from the brink of death.
And they've come back.
But there's also cases where
such people have been kept alive by machines
and artificial means
that when the family had to make that terrible decision
of turning off the machine,
and autopsies have been done,
that there is nothing there left of the brain function.
There is now something called brain stem testing,
which is internationally recognized, I believe.
If there's no electrical force coming from there,
there's been no cases ever of anyone recovering
where their brain stem has stopped functioning.
Now, I don't know.
I think the question is,
if the energy is looking more and more
like it's in a quiescent, dead state.
And there's no energy around the proximity
of a comatose victim, then there's a likelihood
that we're only keeping the body functions alive,
and the person is no longer with us.
And you can see this
through your technology as well?
I have observed it before, in previous cases.
But it is not a tried-and-tested means, by any means,
for this kind of thing.
But people with other means,
obviously with medical tests as well,
and my test,
have been helped to formulate,
to help make decisions, difficult decisions.
So what would it have looked like?
If the person is still there?
What does that look like?
Well. The chakra still function, for example.
The meridians are flowing.
All this we can actually see.
We can look for active acupuncture points.
This I was able to do in mainland China, 2001.
When I was out there.
Yes, I wanted to get to that.
I have visiting professor of medicine status
for that wonderful country.
And it was wonderful in China,
because we both had traditional doctors
and doctors that were also trained
in their traditional medicine,
who were coming up to congratulate me
and saying they were seeing for the first time
things they'd only seen in their books
of acupuncture, meridians,
and the flow of what they called the qi or the life force,
through these points.
Your images are absolutely amazing,
showing the energy flowing.
Yes indeed.
I feel that we have validated the understandings
and the knowledge of these ancient peoples
from China and India.
Because we see the chakras too.
They work together in this.
And with those two ancient peoples,
who thousands of years ago discovered,
observed these forces within us.
Man hasn't changed very much since that time.
Apart from pollution of the planet,
and perhaps pollution of himself
with negative things around him.
And you can actually watch
the vital flow through the body.
In real time.
And yesterday I was watching you in real time.
And you had Dr. Dailey using his amazing abilities
as a Reiki master as well as being an MD,
working on somebody who had been out of balance
or in pain, in fact a few of them.
And you can watch, through your technology,
the bodies actually coming back into harmony and balance.
I've seen it hundreds and hundreds of times.
But I never take it for granted.
It's a wonderful thing to observe.
Where, we talk about harmony and balance of energy,
but to actually see it occur,
from a disharmonious state,
or can I use the classic word of "disease,"
as opposed to ease.
"Disease" is a word that "means out of balance."
And originally, in ancient times, it meant out of humor,
out of balance with one's energies
and one's components.
And when you're in-ease, you're in balance.
Any good physician doctors, therapist,
is always trying to do, healer,
is to get someone back to their normal balance.
And that is what we want to achieve.
And it's amazing how subtle energies
really put it there so much faster than anything else.
Absolutely.
Rather than blasting it with pharmaceutical drugs
and the like.
When it comes to even, shall we say,
some of the very prominent pharmaceutical agents
we use in society,
there's an energy component to them as well.
And I feel, as a scientist, that if we looked
at the energy components,
rather than just the chemical reactions,
we'd get more insight into making drugs safer.
Give us an example of exactly that.
Well, for example, I did an experiment
where if you use aspirin,
salicylic acid to scientists, okay.
And you give it to a human being, okay.
You'll see an energy irritation
that suddenly appears in the stomach area.
Especially on an empty stomach, okay.
Don't take aspirin on an empty stomach.
Yet it's a very, very useful agent.
And it's been used by householders,
ordinary people, for the last over a half-century,
probably longer.
But if you put just an aspirin
near the energy of a cat, a feline.
Do not get the cat to eat the aspirin, okay.
Just get it near the energy of a cat.
The energy of the cat goes haywire.
Cats cannot tolerate salicylic acid.
If they ingest it, it will kill them.
So if you ever think your cat's got a headache,
don't give it aspirin.
You go to your veterinary practitioner
and get the right thing it needs.
Interesting.
That's just an example.
Have you by any chance watched
any other chemical interactions in human beings
with certain types of drugs,
whether they were legal or illegal?
I did yesterday, in my presentation, show
a very distressing study, picture study,
of a crack cocaine addict.
I saw that.
A 15-year-old girl.
And this is just typical of what I've seen
of this terrible, terrible affliction.
I don't want to call it even an addiction
and make it respectable.
It's an affliction that's put on young people
by most immoral means
of base society.
It literally rips open their energy fields.
Especially at the top of the head.
There's kundalini imbalance,
which is at the base of the spine.
Their sexual energy is completely disorientated.
Their brow chakras are opened,
and they will hallucinate.
They will actually see things in those other dimensions.
Which of course are put down to
paranoid delusion, and psychotic behavior
by modern society.
But they're actually being opened
artificially to these other dimensions.
And they don't have the mentality
to understand what they're seeing.
I had a 15-year-old, for example,
who said, "These voices tell me,
"Dr. Oldfield, to kill my parents,
"and to get their money,
"so I can get more of my white rocks."
And it was very very, well, disconcerting to me,
but tragic to her family
to be going through that experience.
And they actually are opening to other beings.
You can see the other beings as well?
We have seen these attachments.
We have seen these forms.
Not around everyone, shall we say,
who's been addicted to certain substances.
But certainly the hallucinogenic,
morphic type drugs
are profound for opening one up
to those other levels.
And once this happens,
have you ever seen anything on a continued basis,
once these beings are opened
to these other entities or attachments?
What does it take then to repair the field?
From your observations?
If they're cooperative,
and this is not always the case,
if they're still in the family unit,
which is also not always the case,
I've been successful in closing down these energy gaps,
these energy rips, lesions, if you like.
And sealing the energy field,
controlling the abused substance,
under medical supervision, of course,
with substitutes.
Then we are able to call it a successful case.
But the psychological damage
can be very much more long-lasting.
And to other family members too.
And to spouses and partners.
Let's compare that, for example.
You had, I believe, a rinpoche.
Oh, indeed, Lama Rinpoche, Tibetan priest.
Can you talk about the differences
in the aura.
His energy was so magnificent.
Rainbow-colored, bright,
as opposed to dark and sinister
from the cocaine addicts.
What has this taught you,
being able to view these kinds of images
in real time, real life, and watch the unseen world
happening all day, every day?
To me, every day is a privilege, you know.
I thank God that I can still see.
Thank God that I can still breathe
this wonderful air he's given us, you know.
I'm the kind of scientist who,
before he shaves in front of the mirror,
looks at himself and sees those nostrils,
okay, if I may use that term,
and thank God he gave me them.
Because I can breathe God's sweet air.
And there's just enough oxygen, it's amazing.
There's just enough oxygen on the planet
for us to sustain life.
If there was any more oxygen,
if we lit a match and a fire started,
we could never put it out.
If there was too little oxygen,
then we couldn't sustain higher life,
like we've got here, now.
I think that is absolutely fantastic.
That balance is there.
You have photographed
some of the most incredible spots.
And let's talk about them a little bit.
Some are well known and some are lesser known.
And I'd like you to talk a little bit about Bosnia.
Indeed.
We were greatly privileged, earlier this year,
to visit, just outside of Sarajevo,
the Bosnian pyramids.
And these are ancient monuments.
The archaeologists are still debating
could still be actually older than
the pyramids of Giza, in Egypt.
And 10,000 years perhaps.
We were there with our special video equipment.
And we were able to see the energies
coming out of the tops of these pyramids.
We were also privileged there
with our German colleagues of the Seraphim Institute
and Dr. Karen Tag.
She was doing experiments with her crystal skull
from South America.
And we were able to see the energy interaction
between this very ancient artefact
and an even more ancient artefact of the pyramid.
There were energy connections,
and it was absolutely fascinating.
What did you see?
What kind of emanations were you seeing
from the top of the pyramid?
Well, we were seeing jet streams
going straight up into the atmosphere.
We were seeing, shall we say, flying anomalies
that were moving around the pyramid.
Looked like interdimensional?
They looked interdimensional, UFOs,
whatever you'd like to call them.
I'm still analyzing the film data.
Which was incredible.
Because a lot of the UFO activity
that happens around here
is not necessarily within this dimension.
I believe that is the case.
People who are seers can see it.
I know with Steven Greer's group.
They always have seers on board
who will point out where they are, and so forth.
And they've actually been caught
on digital cameras, right where it's been set.
Very much so.
I believe, also, they're at such a high frequency,
that to most of our human eyes,
they're cloaked, most of the time.
Again, this is just a beautiful example
of how your work is starting to bring
that which has been under debate,
under much, much more,
closer scrutiny, on one level,
but more acceptance on another.
This has been the case.
We didn't go out to do this.
It was accidental.
Shall we say, these other flying anomalies,
that we're able to show them.
Normally, I was looking at
meridian and chakra anomalies in people.
That's where it all started,
with the human energy field, of course.
Let's talk about crystals,
and the human being and healing.
And crystals in and of themselves, this is a big topic.
And it's not just a "woo" thing you sit
in the middle of the table and admire.
No. They are energy-dynamic.
Science uses them as energy transducers.
There's one going off here in my watch, for example.
In some of the camera equipment, there are crystal markers
that set beat frequencies
for those electronics to work
in a balanced way, in a harmonic way.
All of us use crystals every day
in these electronic objects.
However, crystals have been used
in a more ancient sense, in a healing sense.
And the natural crystals that come out of the ground
have properties that affect the environment
and properties that affect the human energy system.
Can you tell us what you observe?
Well, I observed this first with Kirlian photography
in the mid-1970s.
I noticed that crystals had a field of their own
that was very similar to a living field.
But I couldn't be sure.
It was only later, with PIP,
polycontrast interference photography,
my other invention that was in the late 80s,
came about first,
that we saw anomalies
coming in and out of the crystals
of energy forms, amorphous energy, amoeboid.
And we have the film footage of all this.
Coming in and out of the crystal.
And they seem to behaving very intelligently.
So it has its own consciousness.
And if you interface its consciousness
with our consciousness...
They react.
In the hands of healers, for example.
I had an Icelandic healer.
And he could actually,
In Icelandic they're called stainer flk.
And these stainer flk are energies
in the stones and crystals.
And he was able to sort of ask them to come out.
And they could move over the surface of the crystal,
even moved into his arm.
And we have film footage of that.
Absolutely fascinating.
In fact, we'll talk to Dr. Dailey a little bit more
about that as well.
Oh, he's an expert in crystals in his own right.
He is. He utilizes them for healing.
And to talk also about just the simplicity,
because you're able to capture those images
and decipher them.
And I watched him work with some people yesterday.
And the energies coming from the crystals themselves
is magnificent.
I would think the sooner we can understand
this isn't just woo-woo,
this is a natural phenomenon
that now you're validating scientifically.
Ancient people knew this.
When they held a stone, they felt something.
They're people still with sensitivity
when they held this crystal, gemstones.
Then it came about that people wanted to adorn themselves,
put them on their bodies
for ceremonial purposes.
Later on, thousands of years later,
hundreds of years later, it got debased.
In the sense that people just wore them for jewelry
and forgot what the purpose of them was.
It wasn't just for their prettiness, their attractiveness.
They were there to affect an energy state,
to help keep our energies in balance.
That knowledge got lost.
And it's now being rediscovered, I'm pleased to say.
In many places all over the world.
Absolutely.
And it works with our consciousness.
With our intention.
Very much, our conscious intent.
It's almost as though it's an amplifier, isn't it?
And more.
An energy amplifier, energy transducer,
that's exactly what I believe the crystals are.
And when you look at a crystal,
you're looking at the most ordered form
of matter in the universe.
Because it's not just the external geometry
that looks nice and straight and balanced.
The internal structure, called a crystal lattice,
is a very ordered structure indeed.
There isn't any other systems
that we know of, in the universe,
that's so ordered
with its internal geometry of atomic structure.
And also, the energy lattice
that moves through this whole thing.
- This is an incredible area to begin watching.
And again, thank you for allowing us to see
crystals in operation and watch the emanation
coming from them.
So where are you headed
with all of your work right now?
Because aside from the obvious,
which is you're showing a living universe.
You're showing the full-colored, living,
undulating, vibrating, alive universe.
An energy field of all things around us.
Is it all right to mention my book?
Absolutely!
It's called Harry Oldfield's Invisible Universe.
That can be gotten on our web site
and many other places.
And that is a story of my discovery over many years.
And I've gone beyond the book now.
That is what I wanted to find out.
Because I have got more and more fascinated
with the energy of the earth itself,
and these wonderful, sacred spots
and special places on the earth.
Last year, for example,
I was privileged, with Dr. Dailey,
to photograph the energy of Niagara Falls.
A wonderful place where
the First Nation people have said, always,
that there was a special energy there,
special manitou, a spirit of the place.
And we photographed this energy vortex
that's so beautiful at Niagara
with our system, PIP.
And I've recently photographed the energy
at another sacred site, in the United Kingdom,
of Stone Henge.
And we have energies swirling around the stones,
interconnected between the stones.
Beams of energy coming down from the sky,
hitting the stones, and the stones interacting.
Especially when the sun's up there.
I believe that the ancient site
was an ancient sun temple.
These ancient people knew what they were doing
when they put these stones there.
They were creating an energy for that spot on the earth.
Perhaps for their crops, perhaps for something else.
I don't know, but they certainly, definitely
knew what they were doing.
It's a high-energy spot.
Just out of curiosity,
I have been living in Sedona for the last seven years.
Oh my, that's a place I want to go.
I believe it has a very special energy in the United States.
Oh, I'd love to request that you do that.
I'd love to, next time I'm here.
Perhaps we can arrange something.
Oh, I'd love that.
And then we can update this interview
after you go to Sedona as well,
with the imagery.
And the people, everybody watching this interview.
I would love to know.
I've heard of the energies there,
they're legendary.
But I would love to be one of the first
researchers to photograph it for you.
Oh, yes, well let's see what we can arrange.
And in the interim, I thank you so much for your time.
Is there any other little wrap-up thought
besides where you're going with this right now,
that you'd like to share with us?
On your discoveries.
Well, basically, I just want to say
it's just been great here in America.
The openness to my research
has been staggering.
May I just say that I'm very grateful
to Dr. Norman Shealy and Holos University,
who have recently, in the last couple of weeks,
appointed me as visiting professor of energy medicine
at that wonderful university.
It's a great privilege now for me to thank America
for making me an American professor.
For embracing your knowledge.
Yes indeed. Well, you deserve it.
Thank you.
And more.
And I can't wait to see what happens
with Sedona and all the work coming in the future.
You're going to also have to tell us your beauty secret.
You're a little older than you appear.
Your skin is beautiful.
I thank you so much.
It's all to do, I think, with energy balance,
and also the fact that my soul
is doing what it wants to do in life.
I feel privileged that I can say that.
And I would want every human being on the planet
to share that joy that every day I get
doing what I want to do in life
to the best of my possibility.
Well, it shows on all levels.
Thank you so much, Harry.
Thank you so much, everybody. Thank you.
You can learn more about PIP
by visiting Harry's web site, listed below.
Meanwhile, you'll likely want to take a look
at the companion interview to this one,
where we spoke with Dr. Brian Dailey,
who works with Harry,
validating how energy healing
works with clients in real time.
That healing energy is available to each of us and works
is no longer up for debate, thanks to PIP.
Until next time, thanks for watching.